Between the campus people and the Bryan people.
And what did they fight over?
Each one called each other names. Did y'all have a
favorite nickname for Bryan? No. You mostly had to
go to They had to go to Bryan because that's where
all the car companies were. And the banks. The
banks. You had to make friends with those. My
father got awful mad at the First State Bank. And I
remember he went down there one day and parked in
front of the First State Bank over on the side of the
hill. And he came walking out of there and he handed
me this box. He says, hold on to this for a few
minutes. And he backed the car out and went up the
street to the city national bank. And we made
friends with
Aston. Now, there were then three banks, the first
state, the first national, and the city national.
Now, the college, the fiscal department, they had
some
regulations within themselves. Now, you could
buy, they had a place. See, Dad had the, Dad in the
Aggie and New England, he had a filling station for
the entire college. That's where this building is
built. So that could any employee fill up their gas
tank? Oh, yeah. They sold it just like a regular old
filling station. And then over there in another
building, the milling
part, the people that took care of the milling,
They had one you'd go over there and buy two or fours
and all sorts of plumbing and fixtures. Oh,
really? Okay. Repair parts. They carried most of
the stuff that the college had to use, and then they
had an open market right there. Now, did the
typical person who lived out here at college think
of the Bryan people as stuck up,
No, there were an awful lot of people that
came from Bryan to college, like it is now. I don't
know how many came from Caldwell. But they still
fought. They still were— Well, they didn't fly.
They were rivals. They were just rivals. And if you
lived out here, did you use the phrase, we live out
at college? No. What did you say? You lived at
College Station. You used the word station. Back
in the 20s? Oh, yeah. Oh, really? Okay.
And it wasn't until Lankford got into it, Ernest
Lankford, he was the one that was pushing the
incorporation. The incorporation. And he did
push it and did get a lot of it done. All right, now
let's go back. You finished high school in what
year? 31. 31. And are you, at that point, you're
sure you're going to college? Oh, yeah. As a matter
of fact, Dad went over to
Ernest Lankford And he says, I don't know what he
said to him. He said, will you let Bill come up here?
At that time, the architecture was in the top of the
administration building. And you should come up
here, and will you teach him? Because I'd had, I'd
already had, what do
you call it, drawing. Mechanical drawing?
Mechanical drawing. In mechanical drawing, you
draw this up here and you turn it like this. In
architecture, you slip it through and it makes it
look a little sharper. Now, when you finished...
Ernest Langford got me, he made me work the
techniques out. In high school, had you been a good
student? On average, just average. My biggest
problem was with
English. I never was good with English. And your
strong courses were? Shop courses. Shop,
engineering related? Or science related. It
never bothered me. When you started as a freshman
in the fall of 31? Yeah. Did you plan to be an
architect? No. I was going to be an ag engineer. You
were going to be an ag engineer. Just like my
father. And where did you live as a freshman? Oh, I
lived at home. You continued living at home? Oh, it
was what they now call a... A day duck? Day duck. But
you were in the Corps. Corps. What outfit? Coastal
artillery. uh and uh did you tell me about uh lining
up to get your uniforms and all of that
you were given some uniforms
the biggest thing was the gun you were you checked
out a rocket What kind?
Cold action. Springfield? Springfield.
And where'd you keep it? Well, they were up there in
that department. It was right where he got that
big... across from Kiko's right in there. There
was a bunch of steel buildings in there. And you
went over there and they checked you out of a rifle.
And I walked it back up there to the Ag Engineering
Building right here. And over in one corner of this
thing we had a tub. Here's a big thing.
And then about two or three hours later, I'd go down
and clean it up. Because that's something he
wouldn't let all through that time. He had to do
that. He couldn't just take the little rags and get
it out. All right. Where did you register for
classes? Do you remember? Did y'all line up in
Sabeasa to register? No. I don't
remember where the first place was. That would be
31. I don't remember where it was. But later, it
was a joke, because we'd be at home eating dinner.
And dad said across the table, he said, really, you
want to register? Yeah, I want to register. I paid
for it all. I paid for it. I made money, and I paid for
everything. It wasn't much. And so we'd go up there
wherever that registration was. And he'd walk up
to the door, and they had a guard there. I'm taking
this man to the dean.
He'd give me his cycle register and forget it. Did
some of your buddies tease you about having that
kind of privilege? No, they never knew anything
about it. Oh, okay. Another privilege I had, too,
you're supposed to wear a uniform when you went off
campus. I never wore one. I've been down in Parker
Ashton Hardware Company My father was talking to
the commandant, and I was right with him. He would
say that to me. Who was the commandant when you were
an undergraduate? Oh, they had several of them.
They're just the head of the whole business.
During those first two years, describe your
routine. You got up at what time, ate breakfast at
home, But then did you have to come over and fall in
with your outfit? No. No, they'd fall in. I never
did have to go to meals.
You had down military walls. You had all those
different outfits. And then over here on this
other one that went towards the depot, There was
another set there. All right. What had happened is
when they started up, they all moved like that,
company front. And they were out there just like
that. But in drill, we used a drill on the drill
field, if there was such.
They weren't really after me. Were there other day
ducks in your outfit? Oh, yeah. They were
scattered all the way through there, not very many
of them. About how often did you come over and
drill? Once or twice a week? Yeah, you had about
two. It's just like a class. You didn't carry your
gun. So you got up at home, ate breakfast, put on
your uniform. and came to class, where'd you eat
lunch? Went back home. Then in the afternoon, if
you went to lab, you wore your uniform. Yeah,
unless they specified otherwise. Do you remember
what courses you took your freshman year? Oh, I
guess they were English. I had to pull that thing.
Do you remember some of those early teachers? Oh,
well, no, not sure. Well, you see, the first one I
ever had was Ernest Langford. Describe him,
please, as a teacher. Oh, he was great. He was very
particular about what he was trying to show you.
And I never had any trouble doing it, but I could do
what he would ask me. I'd been trained in
handling pencils and stuff like that, you know. My
father gave me, I still got it in my library right
there. It's a German thing, it's all the
instruments you need. Right on the back of it says
1929. That's when I got out of,
I guess that's when I went to Bryan. And did you make
good grades that first year? Oh, I made just
ordinary grades. But you didn't flunk out or flunk
any courses or anything? No, the only one I ever
flunked was first grade. It made me go back a second
time, first grade. When you started college, did
your dad or anybody else give you any advice about
college success? No. We lived there, and we were
always in an academic
atmosphere. We were talking about stuff. He'd
tell me to go do something.
Here's another job I had. The CE department had
courses in the summertime where they surveyed a
railroad from up here on the curve up there all the
way to the river, a railroad and a road. And Dad came
to me one day and he says, They need some help over
there, over there. And the Aggie and Nicaraguan
had a flatbed IHC truck and four-cylinder engine.
And I knew how to drive that. I drove it several
times. I was about 14 years old. And he says, can
you, would you want to go over there and haul these
things out there to the job site and then come back
and get their lunch and haul that out there and come
back and then come back in the evening. I said sure.
I took that old truck and all, somewhere along,
wherever they went out there. I know that country
out there just like the back of my hand because I had
to find them. And there was one old place out there
that was a great big old, it was a pretty good sized
Negro church. And they had a big old bell up there in
the front of it. So I'd park over there and ring that
bell. And all those guys, it wasn't too far over
there, they'd come walking over there. But also
the Negroes. The Negroes. And so they... And
Professor Ritchie was head of the department. We
ate with him and everything like that. All the
professors, they'd just sit down out there in some
place, and we'd have lunch, and they had it out of
their box. I mean, the boxes. They had two huge
boxes bigger than these things here. And they were
on the back of the truck. And I just backed up to the
space hall, and they loaded them on. And we tied
them down. We tied them down. And then we'd go out
there, and then the professors, when we were
through with the meal, they had a container,
another container, and they took all the sugar.
They wanted to make candy at the end of the season,
so they took all the sugar. There was usually five
pounds of sugar in there. And so then they just,
they just, uh, So they'd take that stuff and then
the professors told me, when you go back to town,
you stop at these nigger people and you get rid of
that food. And we don't want to send it back because
they'll reduce the rations. So I'd stop and tell
those niggers, and I had a regular Alright,
now
back here on the campus, how did you get
indoctrinated into being an Aggie as a day duck
fish, did you all get hazed? Did you get, what, give
some examples. We had, you always had, you had yell
practices. Okay. On the steps of the YMCA. Mm-hmm.
And the seniors stood around the outside of that
thing, that whole thing, with that sandbond belt
in their hand. Mm-hmm. And then? You had to run it.
Oh, you had to run the circle? No, you had to get out
of there. Oh, oh, oh, I see. They had you hemmed up in
there. All right, but how did they instruct y'all
in how to whip out and what to say and all that? Where
did you get that kind of? Oh, that was done in, well,
you had a, You had a picture show, also. Over in
Guyon? No. Oh.
There were two of them.
Next to the, next to the O.F.A. Chapel, this way,
right beside the two dormitories that were, I
think they were torn down now. But there were,
there was, it was always right there. A picture, a
movie theater? Yeah. One they called the Air Dome.
Air Dome. The Air Dome. It was a building, just a big
building come up like this. And the projector was
way in the back there. And they had a screen up there
on the, on the, on the that they projected onto, and
then the
seats were just up off the floor. They just, I don't
know how they were built that way, but they were,
every once in a while you'd have a set of planks.
They were just planks. There was one for the feet
and one for the butt coming across here. like that,
supported somehow. But you could look underneath
all that thing. There was a big concrete flat. And
that was the air dome. That was the early one.
Later, they tore that down, and they built the one,
and it had, was built just like a regular theater
was built. It had, on the west side there, they had
stage.
It wasn't much stage, but it was something. Then
you had a balcony all over around this thing like
this, and then you had the whole floor under here
was full of them. Where was it located? The same
place where the air... Oh, where the air dome was.
They tore the air dome down and built this thing in
there. And... So that's where they'd get you all
together and No, that's just where we had kind of a
yell practice once in a while. Or they'd get
somebody up there and start to...
But the funny thing about that was, was Cuball
Richie.
That's what they called him. He was head of the, one
of the guy I worked for. He didn't have any hair, cue
ball Richard. He was head of the, you
know, the strength of the chair,
all the structural engineering, whatever it was,
structural engineering. Now the concrete was
taught in a different place, but that,
You took strength and materials from him, you took
things like that from him. I actually had coated
courses on him later on. But he'd go to that, his
wife was, had a disability or something, I don't
know. So this thing had two aisles in it like this
and this whole thing in the middle was just a big
mass of people. right square in the middle of this
out there and he'd park her down here on the edge of
that and she was in the wheelchair he'd walk out
there about the middle of that thing and sit down he
turned some seats down around you and he sat there
and he never bought a peanut yet they were pitching
Okay, okay. He was out there, and he just showed
like a, and everybody's pitching. So he just
reached over here in the seat and gave him some
peanuts. When, do you remember when A&M faculty
didn't have nicknames? Were the nicknames here
when y'all got here? I never knew or recall much of
anything. The only one we ever called or remember
about was Dean Puryear. What was he? Pee-wee.
Pee-wee. Because he was small? Yeah. Dean
Pee-wee. Well, and there's Bear Tracks Bolton. I
didn't ever know that. Oh, really? Bear Tracks
Bolton.
That means something. When he came in, he was in
charge. I think that's what they meant. Did your
dad have a nickname, as far as you know? Dan?
And see, then when I get here, there's Screamin' Al
Nelson in history. Dr. Nance was Notes Nance. D.B.
Cofer was Dusty Butt. Because when he would erase
the board, he would do this on his... I had him, but I
never did know that. I had him, and then I had a
fellow named Martin in English. Did you and your
buddies, did y'all ever get a paddle used on you?
No, I never did. But the same brown belt sometimes.
You had to get out of that place down there. You were
running something. You just ran like hell. I tried
to break out of that thing. How did you and your
buddies learn all of the minutia about the
questions about A&M? Where did you learn all that?
They never taught me anything. I just knew what
they were talking about. They
did... theater there, they did a lot of singing,
because a fellow by the name of Dunn was, and some
other, the other people that made those songs,
those were all made in about there. You said Dunn,
this is not J. Harold Dunn. No, it's Carl Dunn. Oh,
oh, oh. He was, he was Oh, yeah, he was the, he
directed the band for a long time, didn't he? Yeah.
And he was, he had a daughter. She was partially
crippled or something. You mentioned him.
Describe the Aggie band while you were a student.
It was good. How big was it, I reckon? Well, you're
saying 200? Was it that big? I imagine it was. Did
they march well? Oh, boy. I mean, just kidding.
Were you Aggies proud of it? You were proud of it.
And what were their halftime performances like?
Oh, they always made a tee. They did? They always
made a tee. Did they line up at the north end of Kyle
Field to start? They always gave the opposite of
the people that... Their opponents, the team,
they had the halftime first. They always gave them
that. They were quite gentle. And the only trouble
that they ever had was with Baylor. Now, were there
some problems with Baylor while you were a
student? Describe those, please. Well, They went
up there to Baylor, the student body did. Now the
student body had what they called court trips. And
the whole thing tried to go. And they also tried to
try to get the railroads to give them a special car
or something or a fare or something. But they
wouldn't go around. So they would try to rent what
they called a side door
A boxcar? A boxcar. But you got to realize that in
that time, you see the automobile was coming in,
and we got the thumb going this way, see? And we had a
special out there on that side. You'd have a whole
bunch of curlers standing up there, and some guy
would stop and pick up, and your uniform was what
counted.
Because when I came back from Brookings, I had my
uniform. I carried it with me. I knew it. I never, it
did cost me a dime. I went all the way home on some
kind of a conveyance, another, never did ride as
far as the truck did.
But back, back to the problems with Baylor. Well,
you see, they, they had uh, uh, There was quite a lot
of rivalry. They brought a car, a Model T Ford, and
they drove it onto the field during the halftime.
And it had painted on the outside of it all the
scores where Baylor had beat A&M. Oh, my. Oh, my.
And they had taken some kids, and they looked, I
don't know what they had. They
looked like they were girls.
I don't know whether they were. They were driving
it, you mean? Yeah. what they thought they were
girls. So the Corps went out there. They just went
out there. And what they wanted to do, they were
going to just pick that car up and escort it off of
the field.
Well, it didn't turn out that way. And a big fight
ensued. And the baler opened up. had
pieces of pipe in it, and that's what they were
using. And so the Cobra took that car, and I don't
know how they did it, I've never knew that, That car
came the next day after that game. It was in Speza
Hall.
And all of this fight had occurred up at Waco.
Was anybody badly hurt in the fight?